Hello Reut,
Yesterday Royi and I had a meeting regarding the subject for my future thesis work.
First of all, I want to thank Royi for taking the time and meeting with me.

The subject I suggested is to use College Admission Essays (CAE) in order to predict acceptance into colleges (most colleges in the US require a written Essay as part of the admission process). This task is not easy because there is no time constraint on writing an admission essay and many resources can be used in order to do so. This means that in most cases, essays are written in high language without any syntax errors. My assumption is that if applicants are split into groups based on their high school achievements and other indicators (SAT, GRE or even hobbies if there is enough data for that), then the differentiating factor between their acceptance or rejection would be the essay.
The suggested work can investigate several different aspects:
1.	General prediction of acceptance or rejection to college (is the essay good enough?)
2.	Specific prediction of acceptance or rejection to different colleges (is the essay good enough for Harvard?). We can investigate the difference in features between different colleges.
3.	Finding differences based on geographical features (a college in the west coast might be prone to accept essays with different features from a college in the east coast and essays written by students from different countries (UK, US, Australia etc.) would differ in language)
4.	When two essays have similar features but one gets accepted while the other is rejected, this can be attributed to the level of Interest or creativity in an essay. The more captivating the essay is, the higher its chances to be read and approved by the admission counselor. We could try and measure the feature called "INTEREST_LEVEL" of essays.
Prior research concerning CAE's focuses mainly on academic achievements, gender, economic state of applicants and fairness. No prior work has been done with regards to multiple colleges and acceptance classification.
 
Comments and ideas raised by Royi during the meeting in chronological order:
1.	The work suggested is neither summative appraisal (הערכה מסכמת) nor shaping appraisal (הערכה מעצבת) 
2.	GPA and other grades have far greater impact on acceptance than essays – This is probably correct but I believe that splitting the data into groups based on GPA solves this issue
3.	Try to look at 10 essays to get a "feeling" for the data
4.	Yorka from the OPEUNI conducted a research about detecting dementia based on cognitive skills connected to typing. He might have data related to my topic. Also his work might be somehow connected to mine or interesting to continue in general.
5.	Possible research concerning what makes something "interesting":

There is research about profiles in blogs and whether they are "reading" profiles or "writing" ones based on parameters such as reading time, number of times the post was edited, number of comments etc. We can take the more dominant posts and try to point on a parameter of "interest" or connectivity to the subject.

Another possible angle could be inspecting posts on Medium.com and assuming that the level of interest is determent heavily by the title and the first paragraph, analyze them and determine what features make the post interesting.

These possible angles might also be related to the "INTEREST_LEVEL" feature I described in section 4 in the beginning.  
6.	I can contact the people from The Department of English in BIU and ask them about the English Exam for Masters students. The second part of the exam requires to write a short essay, and they must know what criteria they are looking for in a well written essay. I addition, they might have data that can help me.
There are also English tests in the Openuni.
7.	I can look for works related to education in NLP meetups. Also look at works presented in ACL and NAACL.

Possible integration with GIoR from wizzzmaaan:
They have a dataset of scientific writing. It might be interesting to investigate coherence in scientific writing. Maybe check through syntax and coherence the correctness of a scientific answers in Hebrew. Possible future work may be taking the features observed in one language and try to transfer them to another one. 

Getting DATA for research:
1.	Collaborations with other departments
2.	Datascience centers
3.	Create own dataset through crowdsourcing
4.	Use existing dataset from out NLP group
DATA regarding my original thesis suggestion:
1.	The website https://www.admitsee.com/ contains profiles of college students. Each profile contains information about their high-school grades, college GPAs, essays, colleges which accepted and rejected them and much more. The website is not free but maybe they would agree to give us access to their data to conduct an academic research.
2.	Is it possible to send a formal request to different colleges and universities in the US, requesting specific data in order to conduct academic research? Is it customary? 

Stanford university conducted two researches with datasets of 230K and 800K admission essays (I guess that the small dataset in encapsulated in the large one).

The University of Texas at Austin conducted a research with a dataset of 50K admission essays.
